Alright! Alright! Well, I'm gonna start the recording, and we'll get on the record for tonight.
Welcome, everyone. This is our session. 5.
I take eight-thirty it's good to see you tonight, so, and for those of you who are watching the recording welcome, you are obviously most welcome as well.
Tonight we're going to be talking one last week, focused on looking at technologies, the emergency technologies, new newer newish settlers that are focused on helping students create content.
We're gonna talk about some of the some of the rationale for that.
Some of the great ideas on why this might be helpful, but I also wanna start by acknowledging that content creation which is really what we were referring to last week.
No, this week last week was more like content.
Consumption. How do you provide tools to use to help provide content for students?
You know as well as I do. There is a lot of overlap in this that's really kind of an artificial distinction, because guess what happens when students create content well, it's not really content unless someone else is provided with it to help them learn right so content. And creation.
And consumption are really 2 sides of the same thing, sometimes the same activity.
And yet it's just a different perspective, right? So would you create content?
Right. It's designed for someone else to consume same thing for students that the important thing about this, I think, is that students are more involved than perhaps they have been.
So let's let's take a quick look back at the discussion that has just been wrapping up this afternoon.
Maybe even this evening. So session 4 discussion, a lot of activity.
And it's available. Actually, I don't close it till the day after it's due.
So, if you are a little delayed in getting to it, you still have opportunity to get your 4 posts, and for full credit, and I want to give you an opportunity to talk about anything you saw posted in here either something you posted or something that others have posted perhaps in reply to you or
anything else, anything, peak your interest. There are so many resources in.
It might be an interesting project to kind of collect all these resources, and something like go away.
We talked, I think that there was some mention of that in the first week or 2.
Never really opened it. But it's something that could possibly be done.
Someone just has to do it.
Right bunch of more chat. Gpt, not surprising.
There was a AI in creating videos. I don't know if it's AI, but pretty powerful video creation tools out there these days.
Anything interesting.
Yeah, I am. You just scroll past something that I I actually wanted to learn more about that. Dalton mentioned.
And I think Adam also mentioned at 1 point, but the idea of like micro learning.
That's kind of a new concept for me.
I I kind of I guess I'm just curious to what it looks like.
I understand that just a description of it but I guess I would just need to see it to really understand it.
Like, what does that mean? What does it look like? And how micro?
How micro micro micro learning.
Well, you've got people in this class right now who can speak to this?
As a matter of fact, some of them did some work last semester in a class, and focused on micro learning.
We had a whole module experience focused on micro learning in the I tick 8 60 class.
Dalton, do you wanna give us a 30 s summary from your perspective? Yeah, there's a paper there.
He's just put it into into the chat that there's some other resources.
Maybe I can share quickly, too.
Yeah, I'm trying to dig into my notes. I don't know.
Do we present something also? I think we did it's right. I have some short slides that you can also take a look at. But yeah, it was.
It was new for me also. Last semester, my my original idea of my collarity was like, maybe those coursera courses.
But those are, you know, an hour at least, or even more, in microb, can be really really short.
Right can be like down to like a minute, so I think it.
Yeah, learning about it really broaden my view of of what it can be.
And micro learning is also becoming more popular, like through Linkedin, also Linkedin learning, which are like short-lived videos, and also in corporate world to help people integrate it.
To workflow also onboarding a lot of onboarding these days is done through.
Okay, so.
Michael learns stages. So there's all kinds of different applications. There isn't just like 1 one type of.
Because I'm thinking like, are they like little modules of a larger thing, sort of?
It depends. It depends on what the need is.
So how can we, can anybody have a definition for micro learning like a one or 2 sentence definition that we could start with?
I think this is a really good. I think we we can spend a little time talking about this.
I'm just, and what I'm doing is I'm looking at the course from last semester, where we had the resources posted.
I think I can chime in. Can you guys hear me?
Okay, we can.
Alright. So I think microrolling is just approach for learners or students who learn information.
So think of this way. Say, if I just take a giant, thick, crazy big brick of Execke Pd.
And the shop around your face tell you say, hey, reel this right now.
It's impossible to learn things from there, because there's so much information at one time, right?
And really with the human brains, is that there's a certain amount of limits, information we can absorb within a timeframe with the short time.
So the item learning is just, you know, you're breaking information, breaking things.
You need to teach or need to information to pass on to your learner into small chunks, and so they can learn, build things at one time, and as far as how short, how small, is micro learning.
I remember last semester I was taking class with our B.
We had somebody as a speaker who was actually working in the Itac.
Feel he was talking about that he was designing micro learning courses, and he would like break it down, even down to like one learning objective for a course.
So hope that, can I give you an idea?
Right. So micro learning is very small, but intentional.
Learning opportunities that are often provided in a what we might call like a non-traditional way.
Usually so. For example, when we were doing this unit Dalton and I were facilitating that week for that class students take turns facilitating that class, and what we, one of the things we did is that we sent out several emails or messages to students with a short little piece of information
or a video to watch, or something else to do, and then something to do with it.
And so for the students, it would take maybe anyone from one to perhaps 3 min to kind of to explore some content in some ways.
But then there would take them a little bit of time to reflect, and then to post something.
And we had people putting things into a notes page, I think that we were connecting.
So that they were connected, and they were kind of directed towards helping people understand what micro learning was about.
So they they're typically the word micro.
Of course, the prefix, I guess. Super short, super short.
So what is super short? Could be? 30 s could be 5 min could be 10 min.
It kinda depends upon the context. What's the normal?
And what is this? But it is. It is intentional right, and it is got an element of doing something with it.
Usually that kind of helps make it more more instructional than just information.
That's my perspective on it. In a nutshell.
Sadia, what do you have to add?
Well, I was thinking about like, where's the best platform to check the example of micro learning?
The best platform. Michael learning can be done on platforms so that can also be done just through communication networks.
It could be done. You could do Microsole, learning through paper based, you know, some people are located in in a building right?
Remember, those days you could do micro learning just with paper, you know, like flyers around, or other kinds of things, or something goes, you know, a card that goes into a mailbox.
Wow! Those are old days, but you know that kind of stuff could be mic learning 2.
It doesn't necessarily have to be platform based. But there are platforms that are that talk about being doing this, and one of them the one that I think that we talked about last semester a little bit was 7 Tabs.
So I think it's could probably go to that 7 Tabs.
See what comes up micro learning, effortless micro learning, create impactful courses, micro learning courses and seconds so take a look at this, and you can explore this wrong.
This is what I know of in the e-learning space that claims to be, you know, designed and set up for micro learning.
I've never really built anything with it. Oh, guess what our old PAL AI is in there as well.
7 tabs. AI, the number one, micro learning platform.
So pick a look at that. That would be a good place, I think, to explore more around that from a kind of a commercial perspective, Dalton, do you want to talk a little bit about what's in the chat?
You put some stuff in there.
Yeah, there's there's lots of examples there.
I like the the edge of flow. Link is good.
Yeah, just check them out. You can save them and check them out on time.
I see Adam has his hand up too.
Go ahead, Adam. Thanks. I missed that.
Yeah, I was also gonna say, well, in my mics experience with micro learning, which is honestly, not not much.
But I would. My exposure to it has been like it's often mobile.
First, when it is e-learning, because of the idea being like students, learners are doing it on the go in some way and it's like kind of like short spurts of learning rather than thinking of it, like you know, so much of my work is like designing online.
Graduate programs, or from on ground to online. And all, when you're breaking content up from like a 90 min lecture to smaller chunks I would not necessarily call that micro learning because you're it's still part of a broader course that's probably delivered over 12 weeks so
Hmm!
it's like my sense of it is like, it's like, it's about like, it's a very small contained learning activity rather than thinking about, like breaking up content into smaller spurts, which I it's probably like rhymes in the Michael learning.
But it's not quite the intent behind it.
Yeah, yeah, I think, it's, there's there's a you know.
It's one of those terms in the field that people can interpret lots of different ways.
Sometimes I know there there what you might call micro learning activities that are included in a larger e-learning experience or training experience, or even, you know, class experience, online classes.
Actually, you know. So, for example, if I was to say something right, and I've thought about doing this a lot, you know, I was there in the wild, wild, wild world.
The brown emerging technologies, and I sent that off as a you know, fired off a message to everybody, and especially if there was some some simple little call to action.
With that that you could consider a micro learning component of a larger course.
Right, so interesting. This one, the add app. You know, they're gonna make it your teams 2 times their time to competency.
I guess that means double their time to. I don't think they mean that I think they mean cut it in half.
Don't they? You will. 3 x development.
I think that means I don't know what you're gonna do make 3 times as much stuff.
And speed up your deployment. Speed all in under 5 min a day.
Wow, magic. So that's vendor.
Speak, I guess, anyway.
Thanks anything else. I'm micro learning kinda like reels.
Don't know. I guess it could be. If there's a instructional intent there more than just information.
Yeah.
I just noticed that a lot of you know, a lot of reels are sometimes geared towards just teaching some people about orbitals about something, or teaching people about a particular cloud, or, you know, like raising awareness about a particular group of people or something like that you know?
Yeah, that could certainly you could. That could certainly fit fit kind of the larger definition.
I was thinking kind of thing along the lines of like reels and tech talks, being especially like during the pandemic I feel like there was a lot more I feel like now there's a little bit more of a at more entertainment.
I feel like. During the pandemic there was a lot of entertainment, but also like people were trying to still learn things and like teach people things through it, which I think is really.
Yeah, yeah. And I think you know. And I think that you know as that whole space has continued to grow and develop and kind of evolve a little bit and expand in popularity.
I think there's the space for Michael. Learning has followed along.
I think it's more likely that people might engage in these because they're used to seeing this in other areas.
Yeah, like, cooking tick, tock, exactly.
Okay. Does that help answer the question? Mari give you enough to kind of explore on your own. If you want to.
Yeah, yeah, I was really just interested in it, because I it was a new term for me.
And I have heard about the idea of like chunking.
Yeah.
You know, material, and I was wondering if it was like the same thing.
But it seems like it's not from what Adam is saying and what I kind of am gathering from from folks like.
It's not really necessarily chunking material.
Yeah, chunking is really kind of segmenting material, so that it's easier to learn.
Or, yeah, I guess that's really, how I would say, Chunky is. And so it's an organizational approach.
Micro learn, you, know you could chunk it in a way that each element it depended upon what it is.
Again. You could send things out, or have the micro learning opportunities that maybe are the small and smaller chunks of the experience.
It really kind of depends upon the overall intentional. The design.
So, for example, if you're working on a project, or you're working with, you know, learners.
And you know, they really only have 5 min chunks of information.
Time to be part of this program, or maybe you decide that maybe this is something that should be learned over about a 2 month period and distributed to maybe a couple of little segments every week.
But maybe they're only 5 min long, and so you might come up with a strategist.
Okay, maybe 3 days a week. We're gonna release little nuggets.
And each little nuggets will have a very small thing for them to do with it.
Maybe they're just gonna do a simple task. Maybe they're gonna put some ideas down somewhere.
I don't know what it would be, but so it could be I'm not saying that chunking and micro learning are completely dissociated from each other.
They're just not necessarily connected, chunking is really about organizing amounts of information to smaller, small enough chunks.
The chunks, organizational pieces so that they are perhaps more easily learned.
I. That's how I would refine it.
I'm free to be connected to our connected.
Dalton has his hands up too.
Okay, I'm gonna have to start walking this. We're looking out for each other.
Excellent!
Oh, yeah, thanks. Uhhuh. Thank you. Dr. Biddy. Can can I share my screen to you? I want to tie this to the to some one of the readings for tonight, you know, looking at looking here into the this page here?
So students as creators. I thought, there's a lot, you know.
Looking at this again with this lens of micro learning, my language seems to pop up a lot right begin, and then every class period with the creation.
I do this question sometimes, and they're better if they're short, of course, because if it takes the whole class, then the class is the creation thing.
That is the class. Yeah, yeah.
So, exactly. Yeah. So one example that we do in my school that I borrowed from the our Maker space teachers is like, create a bridge using only piece of paper that will hold like these hand washeders that's a great one.
Hmm!
Another. One is like sketch a 100 uses of a paper clip, and they can be easily serious.
That's a great one to get them, and hmm, lecture.
Period, right? I guess. Leading this to be another Worldshire gonna be like more than the class.
Maybe a few weeks, which is what I do by some. Some of my projects are 6 weeks long.
Some of them are 2 months long, interactive learning, material.
That's that's also adjacent to learning.
And then there's one more here. Yeah, I guess, shaking things up and encouraging risks and mistakes right when I do.
When when I try to do this in my class, you know I don't know a mistake to be the result of 2 months of work, but if there's a mistake that I can model for my students that only takes 5 min that's that's really really way.
Yeah.
Better, right, I don't want my students to get deflated from working on something for months and months, just to learn from it failing right it's very spectacularly so there's I think there's you know, with content creation.
Micro learning can also relieve power, for right? Because, you know I don't. You?
You wouldn't want kids to spending months and months and months making a a Youtube video right?
Especially if it's really short. I have another example. This, too, in terms of concentration, which is the science rep.
Academy that my colleague, Tom Mcfadden, also I. He created the app to help students with this.
So students do make these. They're right. The wrap themselves.
They? They essentially take a song and then they rewrite the lyrics, and they keep the music to support the work.
So really, really great. I'll drop this link in the chat. Highly recommend.
If you have middle school students, or if you have, like nieces and nephews, I'll drop in the chat.
Okay, thanks. Dolphin, yeah. All over. The place could be all right.
Okay. Excellent. Are there anything else come from the discussion that you noticed a lot of really wonderful posts?
I think I was part of every thread. Several of them today, because they kind of just popped up yesterday.
But that is what it is. O ye are got a lot of kind of interesting from some people.
Open educational resources, better on for a long time 1015 years at least.
With that name. Maybe a longer. I'm not quite sure but the last 10 years on our campus I was administered oversaw our program for affordable learning solutions.
It was always amazing to me how new this was to the faculty.
We had a chance to talk to. Every year we talked to new faculty.
Other, and they never heard of it. Oh, what I don't have to assign that $150 textbook!
Well, doesn't everybody use that textbook? Well, actually, here's another one you could use for free.
That's been developed, that people have developed someone else paid for the developments, never free, free, right?
Someone's pays the cost at some point, but they decide to distribute it under a creative commons license at everybody can use free or charge.
That doesn't have all this other stuff doesn't have all this supplemental, you know.
Exam databases necessarily, or maybe doesn't give you Powerpoint presentations to use you to class.
So you really have to do very little, but the content is there, and over time even these oer resources have become better and better at creating some of these supplemental materials that we know really have an impact on faculty.
And option. And you know, hopefully in student learning as well.
So yeah, it's been around for a long time. Openstacks was a project started, I think, at Rice University, in Texas.
And now has kind of grown beyond that. And they started.
They were focused on creating free content for students to use and for faculty to use.
In like these core subjects that everybody teaches. Think about.
If you're in an educational institution, it doesn't matter what level you got.
Courses, that everybody teaches, and you often use the same materials, especially like in a California public school system.
You know where you're mandated to use certain textbooks, community colleges, you know.
You all probably use very similar texts in many of your classes.
Not all the classes, course, but there's probably at least 2 dozen classes or more where it could be the same textbook for everybody.
Why not do that? Make it free for everyone? And then, all of a sudden, now, students don't have to borrow money to pay for that book, you know, or find some other way to get it, or just kind of steal it. It's better if it's they give it to them rather than making them steal it.
Yeah, it's pretty crazy how I feel like oer.
And the pandemic both disrupted sort of the traditional publishing model.
I feel because, like before, I mean, I remember back in the days like we would have you know, publishing reps kind of chasing us down and waiting for us at our office, and like calling us and leaving their you know, like whining trying to wine and dine right like the
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
faculty, some times literally, in order to to adopt their text, and I feel like that kind of you know.
Model was disrupted by a not having people be on campus, so that you can't really track faculty down.
And you have to email them, and they maybe not bulk it back to you.
Yeah.
But also just people being online much more and finding online content much quicker, and with the sort of open educational resources that are becoming more and more available.
But yeah, I really am interested in like writing in oer text at some point, for some of you like, I typically curate my own materials.
I'm like it would just be so much easier for me to just either edit or write my own text for my own stuff.
But I don't know how useful it would be for other people.
So. But yeah, I imagine there's grants out there somewhere for that.
There are, and there are some pretty big grants out there for big projects as well.
And so, yeah, if you're interested in that, your community, your community college, they've gotta have someone who overses us for your school and your the whole California system they've got there are people whose job it is is to make this happen.
And there have been several projects over the last few years. And last few years for me.
When you go back 5 or 6 years where the State was funding.
Oh, we, are development projects. And they wanted people to. They want first of all, they were paying faculty.
Given some siphoned to write a textbook, and then make it available free.
But then they also started projects to help with adoption.
So we gave small grants to lots of faculty to adopt lower cost materials for their courses.
And you know, stressing oer if it was available. But even that even just reducing the cost was something.
And so we gave out, you know, tens of thousands of dollars of over the years to faculty to do projects like this.
I also put a link in or not a link, but a reference in the chat to something called opencourseware.
So there's been an open courseware initiative at Carnegie Mellon for a number of years, and so it goes beyond just oer as educational materials, typically online textbooks to a cold course that could potentially be used for free and some of the is some in some ways sort of
mooc-like in that. There's it activities. There's content.
There's other kinds of things. There's no, there's no facilitator there.
But as a faculty member you could Co. You could facilitate this as a teacher.
You could use these courses and facilitate it yourselves to kind of provide that glue right?
The explanations and the help with students, and all that kind of stuff guiding them through that.
And you can use the course for free. One of the reasons that universities like Carnegie Mellon does.
This because they are, they grab data. They want to know they're really interested in the learning science behind this, what kinds of activities, what kinds of content, what kind of sends, you know, is more effective in helping people learn?
And so what they'll do is they'll let anybody use these courses, and they're getting tens and thousands and hundreds of thousands of data points from the experiences of those courses that they can use to improve the their perspective on learning sciences which will allow them to help contribute to greater and better
development projects, you know. Probably more, you know, maybe more, more, less constrained.
Adaptive learning systems and things like that, so adaptive learning is also come up in our conversation around content.
Adaptive learning is just when the content is, is kind of customized for the individual, personalize for the individual going through it.
So your pace. What you're learning even sometimes the kinds of information you seem to be learning better, in which form, so it might be customized that more videos, more text, more this more that adaptive assessment would be part of that practice, exercise you get them wrong well let's try something let's
try it a little differently. Let's suppose maybe we back up a little bit.
So well. Do you understand this kind of prerequisite knowledge?
Any of you know the starting point. Then moving forward, those kinds of things.
That's another kind of system. That's a there's a lot.
But a lot of research on really the last 15 or 20 years, probably at least, and in the past it's been.
There's been a lot of publishers who developed their own systems for adaptive learning, but they tend to be very expensive because it takes.
They take so much effort to develop to code. They have to have to get some revenue out of it.
So they, you know it's cost $200 or $250, maybe, for a student to get a license to use that for a semester.
Pretty expensive, especially compared to 0, you know, which is what a lot of students really want.
And oftentimes fuel a deserve which may be true, but now there are some other systems coming along, and I that are using more oer, that are trying to elaborate the kind of more crowdsourcing around this in certain areas and so there's a company called lumen learning that's been working
on adaptive courseware for mathematics like algebra, and calculus, the kinds of courses that you know pretty much.
Every school offers, high schools, community colleges, 4 yearyear universities, research universities.
They all have these. They probably have a college college course. They probably have some calculus courses, etc.
And so they're trying to make them so. That maybe they're not totally free right?
But maybe it's $10 or $20, and you get a lot of the same experience.
You would with one of these other systems, at least from the students, perspective.
Yeah, the textbooks, the textbooks are, are one thing, and they've actually, they've developed a lot of their stuff in conjunction with some community colleges.
Really focused on the community college system. But then they came out with, I think it's called Oh, Lumen Ohm, which I think is our online homework.
Something manager, maybe, and it's designed that's designed to do more at the adaptive practice idea.
And they started. I think they started that with the algebra, and I think they've expanded some other math topics, maybe some more. Adam.
Oh, I just had a quick question for Mario. Anyone else who's used the but we are like my understanding is, there's not.
There's not the same profit motive behind the textbook as there were, because it's free.
And I'm just wondering if you, as a result, have you seen any differences in what the output is of the textbook?
Either providing different perspectives or lack thereof.
I so the one that I use for sociology, I I typically I would you know I would kind of switch around before I went to oer.
And I think it really just comes down to the author's honestly like, what are the authors researching?
What are they putting in there? And I always. I'm always disappointed in some measure by any textbook, you know.
There's always something missing, or you know, there's always more that can be said.
Or, yeah, a different perspective. Or like, maybe some updated research that needs to be added, or whatever.
But that's just across. That's even if you're using a cost publisher book.
So, for example, it's interesting that you ask this question, because this week I assigned, you know, another chapter out of their oer text, and the students are focusing on sex and gender.
And the oer text chapter it, like completely, does not talk at all about sexual orientation, which is huge, you know.
And so I kind of like, was inspired by sort of Dr.
Beatty's interactive approach to to things with like students.
And so I had my students. One of the discussions is like what's missing from this chapter like, if you were writing this chapter, what would you?
What would you? What would you include like? What are some things that you would like to see?
And that would. That was just a discussion for them to kind of engage that question.
So anyway, I don't think that there's much of a difference.
The big difference. I think for a lot of faculty and why they don't want to.
Some faculty don't want to adopt. It is exactly what Dr.
Bida was saying, is that there's, you know these publicers sell you like everything right like they'll sell you the tests.
Yeah.
The past, the Powerpoint, the lecture notes like you know, it's just pre package predetermined like curriculum that you could just plug into your courses if you're that kind of teacher.
I'm not that kind of teacher, but like, if you're that kind of teacher, you know they'll sell you all of that and you don't have to work as hard to pull those things together or to create your own quizzes, or you know they'll just tell you a
pre-designed course, when you adopt their book.
So I, you know, we are. You have to work a little bit more about like what kind of materials are you gonna build around the text?
And how do you want it to look so?
Yeah, I mean, it raises it, raises questions around.
You know the rigor of the writing, the rigor of the review process, etc.
And through a, you know, a professional a commercial publisher will will spend a lot of time and energy on that aspect, because their stuff has to has to stand the sameutiny of of the Academy.
Really, you know. And so that is one of the common challenges, for oer is whether or not it's high quality.
There, there are. There's a lot of high quality.
Oecd out there, but you can also. It doesn't.
Anybody can create and publish online an open resource and call it a textbook, right?
And so this it really requires due diligence from the faculty member, or whoever's making the decision to to adopt it as to whether or not it's good enough.
This is a, this is kind of ties right in with this question around students creating content as well.
If you have students creating content for each other, you know, for the class, especially if you think you're gonna be, you know, kind of stamping as okay.
This is a proof content you can learn from this you better make sure that it's right or right enough, that doesn't mean there can't be any flaws in it, but it can't be, you know, missing major things like Mario was saying or sending them off in a
weird direction. Or, you know, making claims that are just not supportable by data or evidence, or any kind of referencing those kinds of things.
So it is. It does raise that it it does make the faculty kind of be more responsible for that.
What I think we found in the use of o we are on the campus, our campuses is we don't have.
We haven't had a lot of whole textbooks adopted, but what we have found is many more faculty looking for.
You know, segments from different works, and say, Okay, I can take a I can take a chapter from here, a chapter from here in chapter right here which has its own benefits and its own challenges, because now you don't have necessarily a continuous stream of someone's writing about a topic you've
got, you know, a perspective from this person, that perspective from this person, and for them, you know.
And so you get multiple perspectives. But then again, you also may lose something when it's not all kind of continuing from oh, in Chapter 2, we were talking about this.
Now we're in over here. We're doing this.
You might kind of introduce our interrupt that arc of arc of learning, design.
So yeah, challenges. Nothing is without a call. And for this one, maybe part of the cost is more work for the faculty to make sure they're picking the right stuff.
On our campus, the faculty for out who have been really most interested in, we are ones who are who gets get really upset with the cost of materials that not just not to not necessarily at the publisher.
But sometimes also at the bookstore, that the bookstore always has a markup, because they have to pay for their people too, for the service that they're providing to the campus and that's an hour of questioning bookstore models, right?
Do we need a bookstore? Maybe we just need a a stuff store, and we can do all our book shopping online.
Kinda cut out the local person for that. I don't know.
Interesting space around content.
Okay, well, anything else. From this discussion we've really only touched on a couple of topics.
We I, someone was posting. Remind me who that was a new tool, at least new to me, tool for language learning.
It. It was later. It was today or yesterday. I think.
Oh, was it a VR thing?
It had a VR component to it. Yes, Hi!
Man manly, right.
I posted about monthly. Normally, yeah, yeah.
Yes, you wanna say something about that.
I didn't try it with the students, but it's kind of emerging to me I know it's not new, but I never tried it, so I thought like I should discuss and think about it like if I can use it.
Because it's like real life. They can have conversation with people, and in real life situation, like ordering food in a restaurant, and they'll have the reply.
Right.
And if they're doing the pronounciation wrong, it will correct them, and they can practice.
Who does the crater, the app, or the person.
Well!
The AI, the AI reply will reply, if the conversation is wrong.
That's cool.
Yeah, yeah, I post I as a reply, I said, well, I'm gonna tell it.
I'm a French speaker trying to learn Spanish, and so I'm and I think that's really interesting, because I'm I'm learning both languages at some level.
And so I can make some comparisons about their uses of language.
But yeah, it's just real simple stuff at this level but then there is a speaking component, and it does record you.
And it it, it basically reads what you're saying.
And then decides whether or not you said it well enough to pass it. I haven't really.
You know, the things I was doing were pretty simple, so it seemed like it was pretty accurate.
I have found some of these tools when they're listening to your speak.
You know you can say gobbledygook almost, and it says, well, very good.
You can move on. So sometimes the accuracy has been suspect in some of the other tools I haven't experienced that here, but I do know there's also a VR component.
You can use this with the oculus, I think, as well.
Says something like that. Oh, I'm not even sharing this, am I?
That was not smart.
Here I am talking away. Yeah, so let me.
The sister, and of course, 4 out of 4 okay, so it's really simple stuff.
This is about as simple as you can get for language learning.
Did you have to buy that, or is there anything for free that's free?
No, this is free! Yes, free!
Wow! It's that's so cool. Thanks, Sadia.
Yeah, I don't think I didn't even give them.
I don't have a login. It must be using cookies to remember what my language preferences, because it brought it right back in with what I what I was telling it before.
Yeah, and actually, I think this is where you can talk. Oh, that's that's so.
Is there some point not too far along here would ask you to actually speak?
I hear you so just want me to say, well, no, I guess it's just asking me to say.
Okay, there, you go.
Okay. Well, before I put myself to the test here. Yeah. So there are, you know.
There language learning apps have been around for quite a while too, and a lot of there's a lot of good desktop applications, too.
They tend to have little different focus areas. And they're really, usually really good at basic.
You know, basic language learning. And I haven't found very many of them that are all that good at the more complex and nuanced language learn, because that's just more complicated.
Imagine the volume of what you have to develop to kind of capture.
You know I don't know, even could you even say, Well, what's 20% of learning how to speak?
English, how would you define that even I mean you could.
Some of your language instructors. I don't know how you would define that, but it's seems like even that would be a huge, huge system to have to build.
So some of them actually rely on connecting real people to real people, too.
So part of the service might be, you get to connect with a a real native speaker of the language you're trying to learn, and sometimes that person may even be trying to learn your language and so there's those ideas to connect real people which case you can kinda that conversation go lots of different ways it doesn't have
to be scripted in any particular way. You know, it's maybe it's like a, you know, kind of a informal interview.
Kind of idea, just discussion. Let's just talk about. I don't know.
Transit how do we get from one place to another?
Those things more content. But also sometimes you can even include students creating content for others through that kind of exchange.
Yes.
I have. I have a question. Oh, why think about create content?
Why read the articles? And then I think that this account to create content, let the students create a quiz or test for themselves.
Well, you could certainly do that. It's it's what we're what we're really focused more on now is around information and understanding around information.
But part of that I mean, you can use quizzes and things like that as a way to help people learn things right sometimes they're they're learning opportunities.
Even within this, in a quiz environment, especially if you're asking students about something in that they they know.
Or maybe they're supposed to know, and when they when they do, maybe you reinforce that right with some feedback.
But you could also use that if they get it wrong. Maybe there's some, you know, some corrective feedback that has information in it, or other kinds of things like that.
So I think you can use quizzes in those ways if you want not just for assessment, even though primarily those are use, you know, if we had to put them in a bin. A category would say, these are assessment, tools, even though they could still be used to help people learn content.
Okay, that means why ask a student to create a quiz like this task also can consider.
I let students create content that right?
It could be you could make an argument that this is a content.
Creation process, and I would also have to say that just the just, the task of creating a quiz often requires students like faculty to really understand that material pretty well if it's going to be a good quiz.
And so that could be one way to help students motivate students towards understanding the content.
A little bit better, because they're being asked to create a quiz, especially if they know that the teacher is going to use this quiz at least, or parts of the quiz.
Maybe I had a class. At 1 point I had one of the estimates for one week. Was I?
Everybody had to create like 3 quizz questions around the content that we were, that they were assigned to read and to to start, to understand, and that was part of what they were doing, and knowing that I was going to pick from most basically put them into a database for that class so that they could be part of the
random draw questions. If if I thought they were going enough right?
Okay.
And so that drove them into content. So in essence it was not only were they helping me create aessments, but they were also, I think, spending a little bit more time learning the content a little bit better, so they wouldn't be embarrassed by writing a question that just didn't
make any sense.
Yeah, Maria, I saw your notes. I also tried this a couple of years ago, but I feel I felt it's not that effective because they they really made bad quiz on test.
Uhhuh. Well, if part of your goal is to help them learn how to create better quizzes and tests, having them start with bad quizz and test questions is not necessarily a problem, the question is, what do you do with that right?
Do you use that to help them learn how to write better?
Right, right.
Quiz and understand. Why might this question not be well enough or good enough?
One of the challenges, I think, was having students right quiz questions for some students is that they'll write really easy questions.
Yes.
It could cause. They have just surface level understanding, or it could be just.
Hey, if this question is, going to come back to me on a quiz?
I want it to be easy for me to answer right, and maybe for my colleagues over there, too, and if they know that this is kind of the game we're gonna play here, then they'll write easy questions, too.
So the quiz, maybe, will be easier for us. So who knows?
You know why this is why this is why you wouldn't do this with our actually having.
You know your active facilitation, and as well.
If you really were going to invest in this is to help them learn what makes a good quiz question.
That would probably be part of the preparation for this.
You know, as a true false question, necessarily good. Well, not necessarily.
It's not necessarily bad, either. There are certain kinds of questions that may be true.
False is a good format for, or multiple choice, or short answer, or all those other kinds of things.
Sure go for it.
Oh, okay, thank you. I have an answer question. When we talk about AI tools for the classroom.
I read it, and I'm thinking that we for the previous years we have so many educational website or apps.
For example, everybody use quizlet, or this, everybody use or like just a Google, translate.
Right. Now we have this. AI, this just vocabulary is so hot.
Can we come back? See our common use apps like, just say, it's also considered a AI tool.
Well, you know I wouldn't call an AI tool myself.
I don't know what they're using in their in their back end, for, as far as artificial intelligence, if you know so you could, if you wanted to talk about how a tool like this is using artificial intelligence for it to you know, whatever it's doing but improving the experience for learners or for
teachers, or whatever you could certainly do that, you'd probably have to do some investigation for that.
Because at the surface level I don't know exactly how that would look. I don't.
It doesn't seem to me to be necessarily a tool. And so Dalton is saying.
How about Google? Translate?
Well, that's that's an AI engine tool, right?
So that is a tool that could be used to generate content. You'd have to explain how you'd use an instruction, I mean, for this class what what it comes down to, I think for, especially if you're thinking about what technology you're gonna talk about or technologies.
Maybe some of you, the most important thing is that you have instructional intent, right?
That there's an objective here that's supposed to help people learn something.
You know, formal environment, informal environment that really doesn't matter so much.
But there has to be, you know, for it to be instructional.
There has to be some sort of a learning goal, some sort of objective that can be met by using a tool like this.
And then you explain how how it, how it, how it works to support, and then maybe demonstrate how it might and what white a little learning and experience be like that uses this tool to reach this learning goal, I mean, it could be a very small goal as a matter of fact, so for as far as Google translate.
What would be the learning goal? That's the question to answer.
First. Is it just it is just an aid to help students, you know, be more efficient in translating, and that kind of stuff which is a really important thing.
But it may not really be a learning goal may just be.
That may just be more of a productivity goal, you know.
Make what you're doing quicker. I mean, I use Google translate a lot.
But they're there's only just a couple of cases where I use it so substantially.
Now, I guess I'm probably using more than I think, because it's embedded in now it's part of browsers.
It's part of Microsoft outlook is using their own, not Google.
Translate, I'm sure, but some other translation tool.
So now, if I get a message that's in a different language, it'll say, do you want this translated?
Of course I do. Yes, so.
They're becoming. It's becoming a little bit more ubiquitous, as you might say, and and sometimes, you don't know it's being used necessarily.
But if you're getting some translation done, it's probably Google translator.
One is the other big ones. I use it on blog site.
Google translate, dropdown, pick your picture, your country flag, boom!
You get the website in that.
Yeah, is, the tool is not. I'm saying you can use it, or you cannot use it.
It's just. It cannot be avoidable to use.
Especially. You teach a language class.
Okay, I give you information. My school, my district blocked a chatter.
Gpt, and I will say my district present the yeah additude about on the chat.
Gbp. In the this nearby district, so they always aligned.
I'm saying, like a Campbell like this area.
Uhhuh.
So they're always aligned. Now, my district a block that that means neighborhood high schools are blocked. We are not allowed to use it.
I'm not saying bad or good. This is just a fact.
Right? Yeah, it's understandable. They don't know how to.
They know how to manage it, and so, when you don't know how to manage something's one of the initial one of the possible reactors.
Okay, let's just block it until. And unless we find out that we can manage it and manage it to our to benefit of student learning, we're gonna keep it blocked.
And that's probably gonna that's probably happening more than just in your district.
It's probably an active universities are asked, are talking about this.
As a matter of fact, our own institution, we have faculty who would love to have it blocked because they're if they don't understand it, they don't understand it positively.
And so they only see the negative side of this. And so I think, to our credit, we have not blocked it, and we have not enacted any policy that forbid it from you know that, says students, if you're using this, you're in automatically, violating you know student code of contact policies, however, our
system is going to be doing a more of a formal due diligence kind of review on what are the positive ways to use it?
What are the things we should be blocking, or should by policy say, this is not allowed.
This is allowed, so I expect that process to be happening sometime this spring.
Probably some preliminary report to the campuses before the end of the semester, you know, but that's being generated by our our academic Senates.
So we'll see how that goes. But so yeah, you can't use it so you can use other AI tools, though, it's more than chat.
Gpt.
Right, and there's AI that's embedded in lots of other systems and maybe there's a way to use that.
Most of the time, I think, when it's embedded in other platforms, it's really doing something really specific it's not like a general purpose kind of, you know, chat, gpt thing where I'll take your questions and come up with some your district.
I mean, if you use chat bots at all in any of your systems, those are typically, or possibly AI AI powered if they're learning chat bots.
Okay, let's shift gears a little bit.
Let let me ask you to participate in a few questions.
Let's get everybody participating. I love our interactive discussions.
Only problem I have with them is that sometimes it's not very.
I mean, we have a lot of people who are not. They may be just more listening, which is okay.
But I also wanna make sure that you have an update to speak into.
Speak into the class as well. So I am going to.
Dr. B. Before we go into messy. We could we do a break, maybe.
Okay, short, one.
Oh! A break. Yeah, that's a good idea. Cause once I get rolling on this, it will be at least 20 min.
Yeah.
You know that? All right. Well, I'm gonna stop, Mike, my sharing.
I'm gonna pause. The recording. We'll be back and let.
Okay, I'm gonna start the recording again.
Okay. We're back from our short break. Thanks for reminding me once again, right?
All of you remind me when it's time for a break.
If it's seems like I'm just gonna oblivious to it.
Once I get on the roles. Sometimes I get on a roll what we're gonna do now is win.
Spend a little time interacting with a application I don't know if I use.
I don't think I've done this for this class yet.
This semester. So this is an interactive activity tool.
And those of you who are watching the recording. You're expected to log into this as well at your own time.
Obviously, I'm gonna make it so that you can control it after the class is over, in order to join it.
There is a let's see, I have to open it, and I guess I need a code.
I don't know why it's not showing a code here.
It shows a code. So let's see if I can get it to show a code.
Well, there's a link. Maybe we should just do that. Hang on.
I just go to the sheriff here they change some things in this, and they they didn't run it by me, so I have to.
I have to figure it out. I think this is the vote voting code that we use.
So you go to menti.com, and then you add the As you for a code, you just type in 1, 9, 1, 1, 5, 8, 1 8 that should get you to this same thing that we're looking at here.
Yeah, it. Just to be the code showed up on the top of every slide.
Interesting. They've changed the interface a little bit.
Yeah, that's weird. I don't like that.
Yeah, I'd like I enjoyed seeing gotomety.com and put in the code I don't know if there's a way I can change that I know there's some other design elements that are different.
So here we are. So if you were joining in great. So today, we're talking about student as content creators.
Just a couple of the ideas. So there's a few slides in here for you to, you know.
Slide somethings around multiple choice kind of check, you know. Choose some answers, but also some open response ones.
And so the open response ones are ones for you to type into the screen and share your own ideas about some of this alright.
So I don't know how many we have here, but that's where we're at, and you can join us, even if you join.
Late. You can come into that. And then it's gonna go up my pace during the live class, and then once again I make it independent, because so here is, maybe it's just a title slide.
It doesn't have that. So this is the code. This is what I'm used to seeing.
You can see that on top of the screen. Do you see the screen?
Yeah.
Alright. So this first slide is gonna build a word cloud based on words that you add in here that may describe the potential for learning through content creation or through creating content.
So you should be able to type in up to 3 words or short phrases at a time, and you should be able to also type in multiple multiple times.
So you can add in more than one set of 3.
I may have mentioned this in another class, but this is this is not a smart word. Cloud.
I don't think there's AI behind here.
I wish there kind of was, so to say. Oh, you said this, and someone else said this, those are really the same thing.
So we're gonna assign them to the same word doesn't do that.
And so if you see a word on here, and you wanna emphasize that you can type in exactly the same words, same characters and it will show up in it will den of course, become bigger, it's a word class.
I also don't control the colors on this it's a kind of a random assignment of colors.
If you're gonna use a tool like this, you can usually control the palette and other kinds of things.
But oftentimes you have very little control, because it's just a free tool, creates a little work cloud.
So engagement seems to be the most the most common phrase being used active learning and constructivism are coming up there too.
Creativity alright, makes sense. Yeah, I gave you that reading all about creativity, and I thought that was an interesting emphasis on this.
It kind of fits well with creating content, of course. But we don't often think about that as far as supporting this, this idea of developing creativity in the people that we're trying to teach, especially if their students, especially lower you know, you know, can kind of take 12 students, and maybe even
college students. Creativity is one of the things that maybe we wanna be encouraging.
It could be one of our other outcomes for computing, you know, doing a degree program or getting a you know, going to this school. One of the things you're gonna learn is creative thinking how do you learn how to create a think you think creatively, you do creative things?
Those kinds of things, but even adults and learning, it may be something you wanna be supporting.
Okay, any surprises here, see like, engage and engaging in engagement should all be the same.
So engagement should be a big old word right there.
But our tool doesn't show that.
I I like the the suggestion of taking risks.
I like that idea.
Yeah, some of you may have seen this video.
That I think it's a Ted Talk. It's about yeah.
This guy did an experiment, and was designed to just to see how much students would persist in attendance, you know, kind of like a game like task, and when they failed, whether or not they were they were they were charged anything or not, and the way the way the research went informal research just
done kinda like crowdsourcing, whether kind of essentially a worldwide audience of people who are following this person.
And they say, you put this up there, and when they weren't, when there was no cost for failure, people were much more likely to continue to take risks and try things out, and eventually complete the task when there was a cost for failure like they started with a certain amount of value points and every time they
failed. They lost some. You found that very quickly. People were much less likely to continue. Why?
Because they felt like they were losing something, even though it was completely.
It was completely made up. It's like the points you get in, and a game app you use.
Most of those are completely value less than the fact that you get to play the game more so they can sell you more ads, or whatever would, said the lower.
The cost of failure, at least to this. This was their takeaway was the lower.
The cost of failure, the more likely it is. People will continue to persist to the point where they're actually going to succeed and basically learn learn through their failure.
It's when failure is costly that people have become afraid of failure.
And you end up with people who don't learn from failure because they don't persist.
Does that happen in your classroom, or your training room, or the courses that you design?
Yeah, I think, what works really well is, if you can pair it with some kind of humor, or as an icebreaker, some, for instance, in the Egg Drop project.
I I purposely build a weak prototype, and of course the egg crashes spectacularly, makes a huge mess, and that gets them thinking like, Oh, I could do this.
I could do that. So an intentional breaking of stuff can be really powerful.
Yeah, yeah, so controlled failure, you know, can be very powerful.
You know we're in that situation, you know. You're kind of it's a controlled failure.
Environment, the thing we do is we have to make sure that we mean we have a lot of responsibility, especially if these are children and schools, or even adults in schools.
But with the school has a responsibility. You want to make sure it's a face safe failure as much as possible.
But sometimes you know, it is failure. If it's not like a just a simple game environment, then the failure but should be something that the students care about so that they care enough about.
It, to try to change their what their knowledge is, or their activity, or their behavior whatever, so that the next time they try it they're not gonna fit if they don't care about it, they may not pay attention to even any kind of feedback you get and so it might be kind of like a kind of a useless
exercise of failure if they're not learning from it.
So creativity, giving them opportunity to create things, you know, if you've got a chance to give them some feedback or have the have the community give them feedback in a constructive way that can be really powerful.
This is one of the reasons why we do when we do presentations in all the classes. I teach.
I want your feedback to be given to other people, and I expect it to be constructive, but also critical critical in ways.
That you know this was this is a really, you know, really good.
You know, this is really powerful, positive, etc. But also this is this, maybe didn't work so well, at least from my.
Or have you thought about this, or you have thought about that?
As a way of kind of moving people forward, because it should be a learning opportunity as well. Dalton.
Yeah, it's a build on that, too. I have a follow-up question.
Hmm!
I was surprised that these maybe I missed it, but at least meetings didn't talk very much about the social, emotional sort of cognitive load that comes in to creating content.
Of course, creating content doesn't mean like it has to be a tick tock where they're like their faces in front of the camera right?
Or they're speaking that can that can trigger a lot of fear in a lot of students.
But when for soon? So for for folks who are creating content, that means that they are putting something out there right?
Yeah.
Maybe in your classroom, maybe does go public right on Youtube, or something like that.
That is, that is asking a lot of some people right?
Right.
Especially if they're new to it. So what are some ways that the teachers or people working learning fields can kind of reduce that fear?
Good question. You guys, you, what do you guys think?
Do you see any of that, even in the creating content tasks that you have to do in this class?
Right. You create content in this class in a couple of ways, don't you?
Yeah.
I can think of at least 3 or 4 ways just off the top of my head. Not all of them.
Discussion forums. Yeah. But yeah, the brick.
With notes. For example, you know.
This breakout notes right?
I think one of the ways that we kind of alleviate the the stress or the sort of anxiety around creating content is collaborative work.
We rely on each other in those groups. So maybe that's a.
Yeah. Yup. So is there risk involved in adding those to that breakout room room?
You know the breakout notes document that we're sharing.
Maybe I mean it's low, but we might be wrong.
Yeah, I'd say, it's definitely I would think it'd be low risk.
But there's some risk there, and when we have the debrief debriefing the verbal debrief, we have, that's a bit of contest.
Creation as well in some ways, and I know that's for some of you that's probably more challenging than others.
But you know I don't really wanna say anything. I don't wanna be the person talking.
You could say just as well as anyone else. But you just may not want to do that.
So there, so for you, there may be more of a sense of personal risk there, for whatever reason.
How about the discussion? Forums? That's probably where your career that's probably at least I don't know.
I'd say that's one of the big 2 areas of content creation in a class like this.
It also makes me like I like the words on here like play and fun that you need to also like, encourage an environment where, like you are seeing as like on some level, this is not just an opportunity for you to be like judged by whatever you're creating but like this, is supposed to be like an active.
Right.
Learning, environment, where we're playing, we're failing.
We're learning new things. We're discovering things through that.
And like, that's something I think like in designing online courses like, it's important to make clear to a learner, because sometimes they can see themselves as really like passive recipients of like of videos and forums, especially like fully asynchronous learning.
Sure!
So how you like make very bright lines around what is like the creation that you need to do, and why it's important and what like the expectations are, some of those are like practice and play and fun.
Brian. Yeah, I think that would. One of the reasons why I don't.
I don't try to grade content in forums at all.
I mean, we try to set the expectation, and that you guys do a really fantastic job with this of creating when you're creating, like your original post, wherever it shows up as a reply.
Is a new thread, as you know, you're saying something.
Substantial. Not just, you know, a couple of sentence that really don't mean anything like us could have been spit out of it AI chat box, you know, with random, almost random words in there, because some inst some classes students might actually try to do something like that.
And you know in as a facilitator of the discussion, you have to set the expectation as well as there has to be some accountability for that don't really have to do that in here.
But but I also don't want you to feel like you're gonna be graded on executing exactly what you're saying.
It's not like a test. Sound like a little little Mini essay that you're doing.
It's more about participating in an active discussion that's on topic.
And and it seems to work pretty well I don't really see a problem with that.
In really any of the classes I teach, or really have taught.
And maybe it's because of graduate students. But maybe just because it's a safe place.
And the other thing that we have is, I expect, enough in interactions, so that if you are going to put something out there that wasn't what maybe deep enough or wasn't thinking, it's carefully about something we can always ask and you guys are good at this too asking each other questions
about, you know, going further with that well, what do you mean by this?
Or can you show an example of this or those other kinds of things that we do to help the conversation go forward?
And so that also helps create a safe space, because I'm not quite sure what I wanna say, I can.
I maybe I'm limiting what I'm saying or I'm maybe I'm gonna take a risk on this, because I know that if it's if it's a risk that, you know fails in some way, it's a safe failure, and I could be redirected to think
about it differently.
So!
Hey! Dr. Peter, I was gonna ask you how you see this concept of having students share in the creation of content for our courses.
So how do you see that be in alignment with, or kind of communication with, objectives like learning, objectives for courses?
Because, like, you know, in the itech. 801, is it?
801 class, you know. There's been a conversation around like backwards design, and how like that's the way to do things.
And I, I have issues backwards design personally, but, like you know, I also I just I wonder if always aligning right assessments with objectives or content with these objectives.
Obviously you. You know you. You want some alignment.
But how do you negotiate that like? How do you negotiate the objectives?
You may have for students, or you know bureaucratically, legally, a course should have right for student learning outcomes to the creation of content.
In this way, how do you? Okay?
Well, that's those good questions. Thanks for thanks for asking them.
Okay.
I'd say that one of the things that you'll notice that the any objectives that I've written out for this course, especially in syllabus, are very high, level, very high, level, and pretty general, which means that we have a lot of freedom I have a lot of freedom in each of the
sessions to kind of have other objectives. And actually, they're not written out anywhere, really.
I mean, you can kind of get a sense of where we're going with these through some of the language about the module, the overview and the preparation. Things like that.
Also really high level, because I want to have a lot of freedom to explore things and to go in directions that you know that you're part of creating right?
I think this is the part of the magic of a synchronous class in particular is that you have an opportunity like this to.
I wouldn't have scripted it this way.
Never. If you look at my notes here, there's like 4 or 5 things that we've already kind of gone by that we didn't touch that.
We're not. Gonna we're not gonna talk about because we're onto some other, some other things.
And we want to keep moving forward. So there's a bit of there's a bit of a freedom in that.
Not everybody is comfortable teaching that way. This is the way I like to teach.
This is the way I like to facilitate facilitate learning.
And so I'm comfortable doing that. But I'm not in every situation.
There are other situations that might be in, especially when I don't know.
Maybe the audience very well, and maybe it's a more formal environment that I would be much more kind of like.
Okay, this is specifically what we agreed. We're gonna talk about.
And this is exactly how we're gonna go through. It.
And we kind of follow more of a scripted approach.
And so that is that's part of an answer to your question.
Yeah, I, and I, you know, I can talk a good game on instructional design as far as aligning objectives with content with a cessment.
And when I especially when I was building e-learning, we we had to do that that's a that's a different situation, though this is more more of a socially dynamic kind of learning. Environment.
Where we're we're free to explore ideas as long as we're headed in the right direction.
With these, I'm okay with taking lots of different paths to get there.
E-learning. Not so much, no cause. We were.
We were. We've created one, maybe somewhat with a one learning path, or maybe some alternative ways to get around there.
But really was pretty much the same path, because that's what it was expected, and it was what to design it differently without a live facilitator would have been probably next to impossible so one of the things that makes education I think different than a lot of training, you can do.
Training. That's more like education. But that is not the norm, especially not if it's if it's not Instructor Len.
Okay? Lots of good things in the chat. There. Everett says, yeah, fear of judgment.
That's a good point. It can be pretty of the fear of failure is that you know I don't wanna say anything yet, cause I maybe I'm not even sure on this.
Let me hear some other ideas. There are some of the forms can be set up so that you can't see anybody else's posts until you post your own I don't really like that, for most things there may be a couple of reasons, yeah, I think I might do that but there are some
faculty use it all the time, because they treat it more like like a writing assignment.
Put your 250 words in, and you can see everyone else's no.
Now find 2 or 3. You wanna wanna wanna reply to with 100 words.
That's a lot more formal than I I don't wanna keep it that way.
That's why we do papers. 3 short papers, one longer paper.
Those are the writing assignments, even though you're writing in the discussion, forms.
And some of you are doing really the equivalent of a super short paper, probably in some of those posts.
That's not the requirement. It's just what you're choosing to do.
To answer the question to to a point where you're comfortable with it.
There's pretty a lot of great ideas in there. So if you count all the words in those forums like, say the last one I don't know how many posts are 65, maybe something like that.
If you, if you add all that together, it's probably about an hour and a half or 2 of just someone reading those to you.
That's a lot of extra content.
Hopefully, you can scan it quicker than an hour and a half alright.
Well, let's go on. Here's one for you to kinda try this should this should be a pretty quick little exercise, so these are.
Let's say these are some sample learning tasks, and they more about producing or consuming content.
Or maybe maybe some of both, which they might be in the middle.
But you can draw that slider for each one of these to the left for more.
This is more consumption. Like I'm just, I'm just, you know, kind of passively receiving this or more active producing.
On the right, producing on the right, consuming on the left.
And I think this is probably gonna show us an average of whatever people are alright indicating on their own.
I think I can have it show an average or not.
This is I know some of you may not have used Mentor before.
This is one of those slides it gives us an average of the answers, and the add, this number.
Just just so. You know numerically, this is a completely invalid number you can't average this kind of data.
It's not that kind of data. It's not numerical.
But it does give us a trend, and you can the nice thing about it is, you can see, kind of the spread behind it when I roll over one of these axes, and that is valid, because that's that's basically just a frequency count.
And you can't really argue with that but so it can show us like for this one.
5 people are saying it's way to the right for producing content.
Someone is putting it right in the middle, either undecided or think.
Well, maybe it could be either one or both, I guess. Let's see pretty clear on the bottom.
Everyone's considering that a consumption we're watching record lecture consumption.
Any other 3 kind of more. Towards the right. This is pretty much how I was thinking about it when I came in here, but maybe there's some things to talk about.
So, for example, shit control is shared. Class notes. 3 of you are saying, that's kind of right in the middle.
Why would it be there? What's your rationale for that?
Or if you don't wanna own that, maybe why might someone else have said this could be in the middle somewhere?
I think it's in the middle, because the content it's really like transcription of content.
Hmm!
So like the the instructor of whatever you start.
A professor is providing the content, and then, like it's much more like, maybe it's maybe it's a blended transcription and synthesis.
So there is like that synthesis. Part is the creation.
Yeah.
But you're not the sole creator of the content.
It's good point, because you are usually starting with some existing content that you're consuming in some way and then you're generating some ideas based on that.
Maybe it's a maybe there, you know some word for word kinds of things. Or maybe it's maybe it's more of your interpretation of some other things.
So yeah, I could see that anything else on that one. Can. I speak to that?
All right. Watching now watching it so admittedly. Want just watching a recorded lecture.
Pretty, passive, pretty much just getting content. However, you could take watching a recorded lecture and make it more interactive and make it more kind of producing content.
If you coupled it with some other activities, couldn't you?
I mean watching a recorded lecture could be part of this whole process, that where you're going contribute now to some shared notes, or share some ideas about an informed discussion.
So just because there is a compassive component doesn't mean the entire activity has to be completely passive and more consuming. Content.
You could also bring in some elements of production based on that aspect of it.
Watch, think, reflect, contribute, you know, some sort of a cycle.
Right.
That Dr. Bitty was interesting about. That is so, you know, part of my role is when we're looking at making asynchronous content you're tracking the amount of contact time that that's contributing to for the credit hours of a course and some schools that I work with will say, okay, one
minute of a recorded lecture equals 1 min of contact time, but some will actually say that no like watching a record lecture is actually pretty active experience depending on what you're doing with that.
And so it's actually 1 min actually accounts for like, actually like 2 x.
And so a 30 min lecture is actually gonna account for an hour of time.
And then I also feel like there could be the other case that, like so many people, are watching these lectures at 2 x speed that it could actually count for less.
Yeah, they may not even be watching it. Yeah.
And so right? So it's just an interesting way that people think about the viewing of video content independently, and how that is inherently a different experience than watching a lecture live.
Right? Well, and what if you? What if you made this more of an interactive experience right?
So you're actually embedding questions and things. Those in that could be done technically right with some of the tools we have.
Right.
But you could also just do it through the video. So you just pause. Okay, pause for a moment and answer this question.
Write this down in your notes, or whatever it might be.
What if we blah blah blah, you know, what if this situation blah blah blah!
And then they can write that down, and so they you making it more interactive, even though they're still just watching a recorded lecture.
Right.
It's. It's like, you know, writing a textbook or a blog post, or something else, you know a more active and dynamic way, so that it would be more of an active reading exercise, because the writers actually stop.
Now, you know. Put the book aside. Go do this, or do this, or something else like that.
And then come back. Once you've completed that doesn't mean everyone's gonna do it.
But some people might, and that could make it a much more interactive experience that could include producing some content alongside, just consuming content.
So there's a lot of lot of practice that could be, yeah or to choose your own story right?
Choose your own video like a branching scenario kind of movie thing, wasn't there?
That was a pretty major movie that came out with multiple endings I don't remember when that was but when you're doing things online, you can do a lot of that stuff sharing your ideas and forum discussion.
There's a lot of consuming as well as producing content.
I think in forums, because oftentimes you're reacting to what other people have said.
And you're also preparing it ahead of time for that.
Yeah, it might have been. Might have been, and the chat black mirror episode creating this and explaining an assigned project.
Yeah, so this would be, this is like, next week, right?
You're drafting a paper, you're doing a presentation.
You're explaining how to use a particular technology or technology to support learning around content.
Or you know, as to support of learning, etc. Etc.
So that is pretty much producing content. Now, is there more consuming?
There! Well, preparing for it, of course, is kind of probably a lot of consumption in.
There our active exploration, in other words, for that maybe so.
There's certainly some rationale, for somewhere in the middle reading posts, just reading the post.
Yeah, you probably primarily consuming content kind of depends what you're doing with the information.
And sometimes posts are really good at encouraging, commenting.
You're adding comments, and then becomes a little bit more like a discussion.
Not quite a discussion, but more like one. So you might actually be producing some content in those as well.
Okay. Wonderful. Alright. Let me ask you another question.
How does tasking learners with creating content contribute to developing skills or creativity?
And so this is an open-ended question. So what I'd like you to do is type something into the window.
Add it to the slide here for us, and if you're watching us as a recording, you can participate in the slide as well.
If it's not open already, you can open it up.
Add your add your point there, and you can add your name to it, too. If you want it to be part of the tracking your, you actually participated with us in our activity, practicing brainstorming.
How does brainstorming? How does practicing, brainstorming, support skills of creativity?
I would say it probably does.
Well, I guess when you're creating, when you're creating content, especially if it's something a little bit more complicated, right?
The brainstorming that can go into it is a skill in itself as well right.
Uhhuh. Generate a lot of ideas right without judging them, and at some point.
And okay, we got 20 ideas here. Let's now go through.
Maybe it's just me going through. Okay, let me see what?
Now, what makes the most sense, you know, where there are a couple here that stand out as being more likely to be good ideas rather than the rest.
And then focus on those. And maybe there's some decision process about okay, which one, perhaps, am I gonna choose?
Oftentimes one of the problems with school, sometimes, or formal environments is that there's only one path, and there's always one setup, one answer that we're all going towards that.
It's gonna be exactly the same answer for everybody. And while that may be valid in some areas of life, it's so many other areas of life where it's just totally invalid, right where you really end up living things and if we're preparing people for life like students for life, and you
know even formal school life. You didn't have to make some decisions out of a lot of potential, you know, you picking the picking one out of quite a few different choices available to so brainstorming as an activity and being able to choose among various options could be
very powerful. Yeah, so essentially, life is a creative process, I think we create your life as you go.
In a way.
Okay, empathy. Imagine the perspective of an audience. Okay.
That's a good idea. The whole idea. I mean this.
This is a this is a developmental aspect for people as well.
There is an audience for this, and understanding who that audience is, and what's the do? I?
Is there a goal? Is there some intention involved in this?
That's an important piece that you might be able to, you know, be part of the creative work do you create works for yourself or for others?
It's good question in instructional stuff. Where you're usually trying to create works works for others from a student's perspective, are they creating something for themselves or for someone else?
I'd say it's probably mostly for someone else depending upon the specific situation.
But in many cases I think sometimes the questions will, what was being expected of me, which assumes there's someone else out there that's expect doing the expecting that I'm trying to.
You know, satisfy with this exercise.
Okay, anyone wanna say anything about any of these other ones?
I was also just gonna say that I think like like, at least for me, like the struggle of creating something is actually like part of the learning process.
But sometimes you can like think you know something just by taking getting a good like quiz grade.
But then, once you like actually have to create something out of that.
Yup!
And like, for example, working on a project, I spent last night failing last night.
Failing through the thing I wanted to demo. Now I know how to use it, because I like pailed through it last night, and like that process is really where a lot of learning happens.
Yeah, yeah, I think that's true. I think being challenged to create something original from this or a significant derivative, I guess what I think would count as well, you know, can really support development of creative skills as well as you know, encourage deep learning as well, so one of the things that
in one of the readings that you talked a little bit about this activity theory, and I just want to make sure that we had a chance to briefly go over this to make sure you understood where this is coming from this is essentially just describing a system with people with objects with tools with
a community of community around the people who are the actual subjects of this, who are doing the actual activity. You know.
But a community of a comedian practice, you might say, as well as roles within the community, that people are fulfilling and different rules, expectations, etc.
But it basically in an educational perspective. The optcome, the object is the goal, the learning goal and the outcome would be, whatever the outcome is, once the learning goal is met.
Okay. And so when we're creating an opportunity for students to be active learners, all of these components are in play, typically and part of your designing and part of your facilitating learning is understanding what you know, which which is me you know what do we have as far as our resources like
our institruments, mediating artifacts, etc.
The tools that we're using, what tools are needed to do.
The work, what tools are needed, and just then to provide them or to make sure that they're available for others.
Maybe to provide for themselves, but without the tools. Oftentimes the activity made Cs.
Or might be, you know, ineffective. What are the rules?
What are the expectations? Are there rule sets that have to be followed?
So, Dalton, I know you do a lot of these kind of activities like you mentioned that I don't know where it was, but with the straws and the paper.
But actually, maybe it was this. I don't know if the reading, or whatever.
But that idea there have to be some rules there in order for the activity to be conducted.
If there are no rules, a lot of students will just sometimes get frozen I don't know what to do.
What are the rules, and so to the extent that that's helpful to make sure those are part of it.
The different tasks, etc., etc.
So you you can control a lot of this. Sometimes you you can specify a lot of this.
Sometimes you want to help students learn how to create the activity system themselves, perhaps, and that could be an important thing for them to be learning while they're going through this.
Okay. But all the stuff works together essentially. And one of the reasons why this shows up in literature is because people do research around this.
And they're looking for ways to make it work better or to better understand it.
And so these are sometimes the the units of analysis that that they're looking at.
Let's look at the rule. Set yeah, if you took 800 with me, you probably remember behavior settings some similar ideas here right to be here.
Percent. You had people. It had roles, you know, kind of roles to play, but it also had all the stuff around. It had a time.
It had a place. It had tools and props and things like that.
All of it went together, and it had a program, right? The program would typically be the rules. What are we doing?
Why are we doing it? All of that works together, too, to help you understand the kind of behavior that's taking place.
It's got a lot of similarities with activity theory.
I say, Yeah, an ecosystem for learning. Yeah.
You could say that.
Alright, so!
When you're talking about digital content creation, when you compare that to traditionally, like analogue creation, are there some differences between the digital and the analogue like non, digital you know, paper B or other kinds of you know, maybe I guess non-digital I guess I
don't have to say that any differently to make in student learning.
Now, here's here's some random ones to any of these seem to be differences.
You could support with.
A few words if asked so reduces the cost, improves comprehension, captures student attention, supports multitasking, expands the audience, leverages the network, powers.
What do you think?
There's no right or wrong coded into this.
I have my own opinions as to which ones I think it are the are probably the greatest advantages, but they may not be yours.
And like a lot of like a lot of the questions I tend to ask, it's really designed for conversation.
Anyone else gonna contribute. There we go, another one. So no one likes to improve his comprehension. Simple one!
Yeah, I would say, probably I don't know that there's a distinct advantage to digital as far as comprehension.
I think sometimes it depends, you know. Can you explore it more with digital content?
Creation does does it reveal different things compared to an analog expression?
Is it easier to make changes in registering so you could have, like a 100 different iterations within an hour of work compared to you're doing it with, you know, analog materials.
Maybe you get 3 iterations in an hour, reducing the cost.
Maybe maybe it depends.
Captured.
Yes, I was a person who said improves comprehension, and I'm not.
Okay.
I don't think it necessarily always does. But the reason why I said this is because I just like Adam, spent the whole afternoon really struggling with my emerging technology, that I'm gonna be presenting next week.
And I think what it, what it did for me was it helped me really understand how I wanted my project to look like, and why, in a sense, and get deeper into sort of the elements of that if that makes sense.
So I'll just share like I was initially, as you remember, because we had a conversation.
Dr. Beatty gonna look into like adobe. I think it's Premier rush. Premier.
Push, push rush right. Right. Yes.
Rush, rush, and so I spent the whole afternoon just really struggling through that, and was going to be kind of demonstrating co-creating, digital storytelling through that.
And then I went and switched to another technology which I will not mention to keep this suspense for next week.
Okay.
But but then I, with this new platform and format, I finally was able to.
It was like I was blocked right like content, wise, and understanding what I was trying to do, and then, when I got the right medium, it just the floodgates became open.
Hmm!
So I feel like, maybe sometimes like, when we have this sort of pen paper situation.
You know it might contribute to blocking sometimes. Maybe not, but like sometimes the medium can really just unlock.
You know, creative energies or conference in a way that you know we don't really have anticipate. So.
Yeah, yeah, you know, it's a good point, I think, because in digital content creation, you have a you have usually have more choices right?
It doesn't just have to be, you know, somebody written out on a whiteboard or on a piece of paper.
It could. It could be whiteboardish digitally right?
Could be a digital whiteboard which looks can look a lot like a regular whiteboard.
It could actually be digital paper ideas. Or, you know, writing something that looks a lot like it would look if you were doing it physically with pencil and paper, but could also be easy editable text that.
And it, can help you, you know, quickly. Write and and correct.
It could be video based. It could be this, it could be that there's so many opportunities.
So maybe you have the opportunity to improve comprehension for some things, especially when finding different ways of representing it with different media.
You know, might matter. You know. There's a classic, you know.
Is it the media or the message? Or is it a combination?
Does the media help shape the message and allow you to do things or not to do things differently in in a situation like that, I'd say, that's probably definitely true.
Each of the medium that we choose has limitations, but also advantages.
So you might have a lot more to choose from.
Anything else on this, someone else wanna point to one.
How does it reduce the cost?
Most of you went for that, though not everybody.
I guess we have to assume that we have the digital.
You know the like, the platform to use and network if it needs a network, maybe the software, if it has a software.
Is anyone else want to say anything? That hasn't said anything yet?
You all have the opportunity you all have microphones.
We just that up?
Okay, move it on. Alright. Here's another question for you.
Real quickly. That's how many different ways we can come up with.
And oh, I don't know. Let's say 4 min.
It? What ways can learners create digital content? There was.
There was a link in. Actually, I think, one of the additional resources, maybe somewhere linked in the modules.
This blog post 38 ways. For learners to create digital content.
You may have come across that it was also linked from one of the readings. If you dug around it.
Is. Do you want this to be like a word cloud like just?
This is this is, I don't think this is a word cloud, is it?
This is more like individual little boxes will come up. So yeah, a sentence or a phrase it doesn't have to be just words.
Okay, okay? And then we can save it. Okay, Gotcha.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, more than a word.
We've already talked about. You mean the the things that we talk about doing things in class here.
Of course, those are obvious ones. What can how can you create digital content?
Well, you can participate in an online discussion form, etc.
You can use a tool like I movie, right? You can create a video.
So create a video, a digital video would be one building 3D models.
Certainly 3D models, Google suite. So how is that's that's a tool that you would use.
So how would you use that tool? Well, clearly you could write a document.
You could do a spreadsheet you could. I don't know.
You could do lots of different things with the Google Suite.
You could use Google. You know, jam board or other kinds of spaces.
You could create digital stories, you could create a digital story. You could do some animated, animated, branching scenario experience where students could be assessed, but also maybe learn as they're maybe taking the wrong paths or something like that.
You could create Tiktok videos right they may be different format for videos.
Create a blog, develop a storyboard, do photo essays, create podcasts, generate independent research, interesting lots of default, free prices.
The camera, video, editing tools, you can create all of that.
What makes it digital content? What? What?
What would be the difference between just randomly creating digital stuff and creating stuff to support learning?
And perhaps the learning of others. Anything come to mind real quickly, what would be different?
I mean, I take thousands of photos every year I don't know that they all support learning, but some of them could actually sometimes I'll go through my, you know, the photos I've taken and use them in some of the presentations or things, or look for one that says that does certain that
will support certain, maybe thoughts, or you know, a metaphorical kind of thing to support, to support learning.
But when I do that I have, I have an intention to do it that way.
I have an objective for that. I'm looking for something that does this.
So I think that's an important thing to keep in mind here is that all of these, all of these activities you know, can certainly be effective.
Some of them, especially when we're talking more and you know, with more educational language, are pretty obvious.
But there may be 2 or digital creation that we have.
Students do that. You know, if we don't give them an objective or kind of a direction to take with it, it might not be very useful for them or for them to do the same thing about it same way I'm gonna create this stuff.
But I have to have. I think I wanna have a goal in mind to help other people learn something.
Otherwise it may just be me, you know, sharing, you know, the photos from my, you know, my weekend in the snow, or whatever it might be.
So we have 17 answers. That's pretty good.
That's about an average of 2 each, you know, about 4 min.
You could probably come up with a lot more right. But there's also a lot of variety in here.
Okay, great. So put your name on here. If you want normally.
Yeah, let's do this. So I'm gonna leave this screen up here.
I'm gonna stop sharing it. But this it should be still there for you on your device.
And let's do something real quick. Let's just take let's just take 10 min to do a little bit of a little bit of a discussion among ourselves, and in part because I don't hear the voices of everyone, and I want everyone have to have some social pressure to actually
talk in the class and breakouts are a great way to do that.
I think so. There is for our breakout. I'd like you to talk a little bit about content.
Creation, the things that you're using now, especially anything we haven't talked about yet so far, or if you haven't had a chance to talk very much.
30, in our live session. Then this is your opportunity to kind of put some ideas out there to take a risk, share those ideas, and I think let's see, hmm!
The notes. We're we're gonna change these notes because we don't have time for the conversation that I had originally designed for this.
So let let me share this with you so normally.
It would just take longer to do. But I was gonna give you a a budget and ask you to kind of create some plans for like a maker space or something like that, which some of you may be familiar with and others maybe not.
But there's not enough time, really, to go through that so what we're really gonna talk about now is let's hear what you have to do as far as content creation.
What have you found to be the most productive?
Perhaps in your class, but also also what what about the risks with this?
What do you find? Has not worked well all the time with content, creation, and maybe that's more important to focus on, because we're going to hear a lot about content creation stuff next week, and how how powerful it is.
Now it's expensive, expensive, it is. So maybe the risks. What?
Hasn't gone wrong. Let's talk more about challenges.
It all adds some more little words to this as we go, but this is kind of we're changing we're changing the plan as we go.
And sometimes that works out. We have still have 8 of us left.
So let's do 4 breakouts. Just put you in pairs, dyed, as it were, and give you 10 min.
10 min. What are the biggest challenges you've come with creating content?
We're having students create content. The, yes.
I just had one quick question, will there be time today to like, ask some general questions about the project?
Yeah, depends. If people come back ready to do a quick debrief, and then we'll take it.
Okay. Cool.
We'll take as much time after that as you need.
Okay. Cool. Thanks.
Okay, definitely it's on my list and then circle.
So don't skip this. Okay. Alright, so simple.
Let's just do this for like I said. 10 min, and then we'll come back.
Okay, I think we're back on the record. We should be recording again.
Thank you for coming back. Thanks for all the notes that was really fast.
I know it's not quite enough time, but it is what it is.
And since Group 4 came back first, I think they maybe want to speak first.
Can you guys give us a quick, a quick, quick summary of what you talked about?
We? Obviously we see the notes here.
Ever it can, right, ever!
Yeah, I'm gonna take my video off because I think it might be a little shaky.
But yeah, so.
I'm gonna I don't wanna. I wanna pronounce your name right, Mayor Stella.
I know it's okay, Marty, Marty, and cool.
Good. It's fine. Yes, you did it.
Yeah. And she was saying how she teaches her students how to research, not just get information from anywhere, but direct them in the direction that they're pulling sources from.
They're pulling information from credible sources and I think that's important giving students some direction in that way to avoid them.
Leading the blind leading the blind was example. She used to describe that, and.
Hmm!
Also, she said, about making sense of the content that they are encountering and producing, and for me I was building off some of our discussion questions and the voting we are doing, and how someone mentioned empathy in the classroom.
I think that's really important, because it's when you're encouraging students.
You're producing in an environment, or you're helping produce an environment where students are empathetic to each other.
I think that that allows them to grow together, and your facilitating that process.
But your they're doing a lot of that with each other and for themselves.
And I think that that's I saw when in one of the readings about the Ceos, about what they've find most important.
And I was just thinking students. They like they. They can be encouraging each other to become the next CEO's, you know, and I was just, I thought that was really cool.
Yeah, I think was that 65% of them were raining creativity as one of the top.
Yeah.
Look for in leaders, you know, you know, and then, of course, a couple of others that would come up with 65%.
That's a lot. It was a significant amount, like 50% more than anyone else as far as a percentage of what their responses were.
Yeah, definitely. And you know, it's important. Right?
For sure to know the sources they're using and to developing the literacy skills is one thing.
But also you want them to create good stuff, but you also want them to to learn themselves they're gonna learn themselves while they go through this.
And so it's kinda multi levels of impact.
There, so use a bad source with bad information. Not only doesn't hurt their understanding, but then that then could be, you know, multiplied with whoever many a 100 students if you've got 100 people in your class could be misled by that.
Certainly can't let that happen if you can avoid it.
All right. Okay, thank you. Group 4. Let's go back up to Group 3.
Thank you guys for hanging in there.
Alright! So that's for us, for adding in me.
Uhhuh.
So we talk about somewhat benefits, and no such challenge with the with this approach, with the content, learning.
So we talk about the benefits. I think we talk about.
Is it this approach can't force you to rethink about how much you know.
About the subject. If you need to create something, you certainly need to.
You need to understand, you know, sound a principle or things basic stuff.
Before you could be creative, right? And then, since this approach, it makes students, makes learner to keep on thinking, and if you're deep on recalling the information in your mind, your head, I think that you know that information was starting stick longer and also just as most of our creative things
it's it can be engaging and fun, and gets students.
It gets attention from the students since they're to create.
They are being creative and doing something, you know. They like supposedly and there are some challenges that we talk about.
The you know. Sometimes when the student tried to reflect what they have learned, they might not be necessary, reflecting, like, you know, precisely the accurate information it could be wrong, and then it's hard to detect.
They don't know is, tell somebody else pointing it out, or they find out that this doesn't seem to make sense, and also we talk about like with technology from time.
Take, and things do change. So let's say, if you only rely on one specific type of technology, or or if you know, if it changes like it become available, it might be like difficult and also kind of talk about.
Also, if you have too many like, because you know, if you open enough for students to be creative, and then you have all like this, different tools.
Sure!
It might also be difficult to manage, too, and something else we talk about is challenges is that some projects and things could identity might be time consumer and a lot of times students might only have been given a time limit to create there maybe like the final project or products.
So you know, students, that they might just go for, like an easier idea rather than something that's more authentic, or something that really more.
Right.
Speak to your mind, and also I think we talk about that really funding struct for instructors or designing a course really, you need to have like a clean, learning, objective and rubics, too, set up standards.
But at the same time you don't want to be too strict just to tell students, hey?
You can you're only allowed to do this. You want to have some bound.
You want to have given some room to be creative by this entire.
You want to make sure they can demonstrate. They truly know like what they're learning.
They actually have the information on knowledge or the necessary skill. After this class.
Yeah.
Alright, yeah, it's a good at those. Those are.
You know, good points to make. I think the time expectation is important.
You can't expect students if you if you have if you have an expectation that this might take them 30 or 40 h to do this audio be something that's done over multiple weeks, it's it's a long longer than a kind of a one week assignment in that case now sometimes students
will take on more more work than you intend them to, because of their maybe they just want to do something.
That's a little bit more time consuming for them, sometimes helping them figure that out earlier would be helpful.
So you could kind of scaffold this approach.
Start with an idea, start with a framework, maybe start with, a you know, some sort of you know.
Really simple prototype idea, and then go forward on that so that you could do some correction if you need to. Hey?
The scope seems way bigger, maybe we could rethink this. How can we?
How can I help you rethink this so that it's more managed before you?
So there is there's a lot of facilitation that could be part of this and I think that's part of what a faculty member or teacher has to know goes in how much? What do I have to do?
How much of this is gonna is this gonna require me? And do I have the capacity to do that as well?
Okay. Good idea is that a number 2 group 2, anything new to add.
I'm sure there is.
Yes.
If you guys can hear me.
Okay, gonna talk for us. Cause I haven't talked yet.
We were. We're all teachers. So we immediately went into that teacher perspective of what Dalton brought up.
Really is thinking about the social, emotional, low, the cognitive load of what students feel when we ask them to create content.
And I learned a lot from my group member. Sadia was saying that, for example, some Muslim women may feel uncomfortable showing their face or presenting that they have skills.
I think sorry you mentioned that they may see it as simple or something I'm just quoting her words we didn't put that on there, but we put the cultural discomfort and students, possibly having anxiety, let me talk about language barriers that the technologies have foreign languages that are
hard and.
What else?
Oh, yes, and we were saying that all the different tools that can be another source of cognitive overall when there's so many different technologies that we're using.
And then the benefits are that students can gain agency in their learning process and become creators, and in that process of working through all those tools or the cultural discomfort, they probably have a better understanding of how other students feel.
So they're content is probably actually better than our content, because it's more audience specific.
It's certainly possible it could be better. Yes, it yeah.
And especially in that area of, you know, kind of create in a way that maybe students would appreciate more than coming just from the kind of the teacher perspective, which is often very not like, you know, there's no yeah.
Oh, and pay wants to add right? Why, you wanted to add something.
No, no, you mentioned. Thank you.
Okay, you're welcome.
Okay. Oh, thanks. Adrienne, thanks. Group, yeah.
Really good points there, especially around the cultural side of this, and anxiety.
This is something that you should certainly take into account. And so, especially when you're asking students to share things within a class as well thing, there are sometimes projects will be done so that that there's like a social media component like maybe even posted on a public site that's a real- challenge, I I don't
do that with any of my classes, as I know some faculty who do, and they often have some other alternative for students who are not comfortable doing that for doing that, for whatever reason, it could be lots of good reasons not to do that, so having some flexibility.
I think is important with someone. One group talked about boundaries.
Yeah, I think boundaries are important, and but also kind of flexible boundaries, and knowing when, how and how much they can flex and how much they can't, I think it's an important part.
How about Group One? Can you wrap us up here?
Yeah, some of the things we talked about. The first thing we talked about was Google classroom.
Are we talked about like the benefits, and then the risk or challenges some of the benefits are as really easy to use.
And it's really easy for students to collaborate on like same document slides or sheets there don't need to like keep logging in like when they go from like Google classroom to Google sheets to Google Docs, things like that.
And then it's simple for us, as their teachers.
And it's easier. I feel like to navigate because it's not too customizable.
And it's like limit, has limited options, but they do.
Those limited options? Well, it's not like too overwhelming.
Some of the risks of Google classroom are like sharing settings.
Sometimes students forget or don't know how to share documents correctly, and teachers may or may not have access to things that students have tried to share.
Also they might use viewable by anyone with the link which then takes away kind of the let's like once you share it with somebody.
There's really no way to know if it's only being shared with that person, you know, like they could always share with other people, or they could like take pictures of it, kind of things like kind of the security I kinda touched on.
I went out of order. But that's okay.
I kinda touched on the last one. There's no encryption or watermark, and things could be duplicated, and there's no like notification to it.
Right.
The original like person who wrote it or created it, and then the middle one, I specifically added this one because I had this problem today I don't really have any problems with sharing with kids.
When I'm like creating assignments in Google classrooms specifically.
But when I'm making a document that I want to send to like one student in particular, like 2 students, it doesn't always go to their email like they don't see it in an email saying missing and shared this with you.
And so like they have to go searching for it in their drive, which they're also not super good at doing, navigating because they don't have to do it often.
So I have to like share the actual link with them which isn't hard, but, like sometimes I forget to do that.
So, yeah, those are some of the like benefits, risks, and challenges of Google classroom.
Thanks, thanks.
On a second.
Alright. Yeah. So for you, I mean, we're we're already talking about it in this class a little bit.
But I just wanna add some other things like blank page scaries.
Aka blank page, anxiety. This can be really helpful tool towards that.
A lot of my students really struggle when they start working on something they don't know where to begin, or they're really intimidated about what they're about to write down.
So it could be a way for them to get started on something like outlining.
Something or creating a skeleton of an essay, and then they can then fill it out.
Of course this could backfire for all the reasons that we wrote it, talked about to this class, but you know I could see you know the turning students creativity into more of editing and there's some creativity in editing.
But you know I have some concerns that that a student could, instead of being really created, was something that they're just sort of like fine tuning.
Some thing, and then submitting it.
Yup definitely. That is, I'm sure that is one of the major challenges, especially for those who teach composition and writing and various forms, especially at more complex.
Well, it's simple. It doesn't really matter complex or not with tools like Chat.
Gpt. Alright. Great ideas these are all here. We're gonna hear some more, probably from our sink.
Asynchronous learners for those of you watching the recording.
Please put yours. You are Group 5, maybe maybe next time you'll be Group One and reserve group one for for for you guys. But please put your comments in here as well and we will look for those later.
That's it for the formal part of tonight's class.
And if you have questions about the the next week, the presentation, or the paper, or things like that, we'll we'll spend some time here, and we'll leave the recording on for so that will be part of the record as well. But if you need to go.
I appreciate the fact that you stuck here a little longer than our expected finishing time of the top of the hour.
90'clock, but I felt like I felt like it was important to get some discussion going rather than finish up super much super on time.
I'm trying to. I'm trying to. I'm trying to relax a little bit on time.
Expectations, just a personal challenge I have. So, anyway, thank you for hanging in there at any point.
If you need to leave the class because we're going over.
And you have some other commitment, or just want to go somewhere else.
At 9 11 feel free. The recording is here for you to review later to.
If you want. Okay, so questions about the expenses for next week, what questions do you have real?
Briefly, 8 to 10. Minute presentation. You show up. Live!
You can do a live presentation. Most of the people who are here live will probably do live presentations, but you could also do a recording, and if the recordings ready, at the start of class you could actually show the recording while you're here in session and get live feedback, some people choose to
do that, because perhaps it's a little anxiety producing to do a live presentation.
And maybe you do want some live feedback that live feedback tends to be a little bit more extensive than some of the written feedback, in part because the way this tool works is that you're gonna turn in your assignment right?
You're draft, but you're also going to.
Then, if you're doing an asynchronous presentation, you're gonna include a link to the recording either in the paper or in the you know, as a comment.
And when you're doing your submission, and then only those who have access to give you pure feedback will be able to see that as well as me.
So, and not everybody will see your presentation. I think the way this is set up right now we may change that we'll see how this goes this time.
But if, like not enough, people are seeing enough. Other people's presentations, maybe we'll have a separate form just for presentations, online presentations.
Yeah. So that if you're not gonna be here, live, of course you're gonna to record a presentation once again, 8 to 10 min.
Explain what you did, what you found out what tool you used, and how you would use it to support.
Learning.
So!
Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead.
Dr. Reedy, I really quick question in the past, I'm not. I shouldn't say in the past last semester there was a little bit of leeway on the draft deadline.
The the paper itself deadline, so that, like we could turn it in, maybe like a little bit after the class, like maybe a day or 2 or one day.
Right. So you wanna know what it is.
Yes.
Now then, I set it up a little tighter this time, but I think there's still a little, and let's just dive right into the tool and see.
So the technology demo one, this is this one. This is kind of the this is the setup of it.
And the way I have to go into the editing that tells me where the Peer Review is.
Oh, you can't see that, because I'm not sharing it.
We can't. I can't see your screen.
Well, then, let let me rectify that.
Let me just show it to you, because some of you don't use canvas.
I imagine. And so here in the tool, I have it set up for peer reviews, and there automatically assigned on March the eighth, at 1159.
And so what that means is that next Wednesday night at 1159, for those of you who have drafts in the system already, it will assign you 3 peer reviewers, and you will be assigned to do up to 3 periods, and then those of you who do not have a
draft in at that time will not be part of the assigned peer review process, which means, then you it won't be so.
It won't be. It won't be you know, a formal review.
If you want to get peer reviews, and you you were too late with your draft, or whatever or you want more peer reviews, you can.
You can send your paper to other people. You can send your recording link to other people, and that they can take a look at it if they have time to do so.
So that's this, this is kind of the still kind of figuring this out.
How well does this tool work for doing this kind of review when there's a presentation as well as well as the paper?
Does that answer your question? So you have until midnight on Wednesday night.
Yes, thank you.
And the reason why it's a why there's not a lot of leeway there is because some of you wanna get your peer reviews done quickly, like the next day, maybe, and some of you want to get your peer reviews done quickly, like within 2 or 3 days and the longer I delay
assignning the peer reviews. The longer it takes for you to get that feedback.
Dr. B. So we'll get a grade for submission of the draft, and then we'll get a final grade or.
No, no, no, no, you won't get any grade for the draft.
Okay.
The draft is what the draft does.
Is if you have the draft in on time, if you look at the rubric in the submission, you may see that there's an element for period.
And that's it. It's like 3 out of 30 so it's 10% of the grade is you completed the assigned peer reviews.
You know, with reasonable reviews. In other words, more than just, hey, this is a great paper.
Thanks for reminding me. Review it, you know. Substantial comments.
So you get 10%. Your grades is doing that. So if you're not part of that process, you don't have a chance for that.
10% of your grade. So that is an essential, essentially a defacto.
10% grade for doing the draft on time right?
But there's no other grade. What I'll do is I'll give you feedback on things that I noticed, especially things that I noticed that I would typically take points off of if it was showed up in the final version like there's no visual support in your paper all right.
That's important to add a little bit of visual support for your message in your paper, as well.
It goes along with your presentation. It probably comes right out of your presentation.
As a matter of fact, for most of you, or you know the language, or you know the you know the spelling simple set belling grammar.
It matters right, or the use of citations to references.
You know those the kinds of things. I'll mention that.
And then you have a chance to to make changes for the final version.
Gotcha!
But you only get a great for the final version. I can't.
But we do get graded for the Peer Review.
So right. So if we don't have a draft in.
Then we miss out on being able to get the points for doing the Peer reviews.
Okay.
Yes, backup 3 min ago. That's the tempest.
Got it?
Okay.
Okay. Yeah.
Yeah.
On Dr. Bitty on cameras. I don't have the assignments. This button, but I go to your module, and I find the technology demo one in the section 6, and it shows this assignment is locked until march first at 1159 pm. Is that correct.
Yes, yeah, that means you can't turn anything in until tonight.
It midnight.
And then, where I can find the instruction of this assignments.
Oh, okay, okay, so, okay.
In the while in the syllabus is one place, and I that's a that's a good question.
As a matter of fact, I wonder? You know, I probably. Yeah.
I hadn't thought about this. That's a good point, because if the only place you can find it is inside the assignment tool, and it's not available for a week ahead.
Then that could be a problem. So here's what I'll do.
I will. I. What I'll do is, you don't see this, but I'm gonna do is I'm I'm I'm gonna have this to the site as another page.
Thanks for bringing that to my attention. I hadn't really considered that because because essentially, if you don't read it in the syllabus, and who goes into the syllabus after the first week, anyway, right?
You can't necessarily find it so I I will create a page that says the instructions for technology, Demo, one.
And I'll do that for each of the other modules as well.
I'm gonna write that down as something to do.
Oh, I didn't have a question about like differentiating the paper from the presentation.
So I looked at a few of the exemplars which is really helpful to understand.
The hey, or the presentation like, I'm assuming the presentations aren't intended to be like a transcript of the paper, but, like, are you expecting us to have slides for that? I mentioned?
We could have slides if we thought that would be helpful.
But it is really like a true demo.
Well, okay. Great question. Let let me ask you this.
What would you want to sit through for 8 to 10 min for potentially 6 or 7 other people you don't want to hear them read their paper right?
Right.
So your paper scrolling through your paper is not adequate.
Visual support for your, for your presentation, and it's probably not a very effective presentation.
Right.
In fact, I think the papers since we're talking about using technologies to help people learn.
Part of your presentation might be showing us how the technology works.
Right.
You don't necessarily have to have a professional presentation like slides or slide deck for the presentation you may choose to do that, but you don't have to.
You could just focus, you could just use the technology itself. And that could be enough visual support for you.
Explaining how it could be used to help people learn. Okay.
Right, but it also could, like my product. It's like, it's I'm learning.
It's out. As I was suggesting. It's a little more like-intensive than I was isn't it designed to be less labor-intensive?
It is still a little labor intensive for me to do like the demo. A demo of most of the product itself might be kind of boring, so I might need to like screenshots and like a walkthrough of.
If you.
Huh! Yes, Yup, you you will be able to.
Okay. Gotcha.
You can make that decision. Yes, yeah. So think about that.
You know you're designing this presentation, not for yourself.
Right.
It's it's it's sort. It's to me.
But it's also to all your peers. What you wanna do is show them.
Right.
You know what this tool, what you think it, what you're what you plan on using it for, or what you might use it for, whatever.
And you might even, you know, think about well, what might they find valuable to know about this?
Gotcha!
Okay, as excellent questions.
Other questions.
It's already been a good session.
I've got work to do.
It seems like the papers should follow up pretty standard format of like introduction demonstration, and, like conclusion.
But.
Pretty much Yup! Yup! You you can, you know you can.
You can make it uniquely your own, but you know we would.
You typically you need to provide some background.
Right.
Right content and include some of you know. Make sure you're talking about your kind of your critique of it a bit, you know, when you think it's you know what are the advantages.
What are disadvantages? Don't forget about the stuff we talked about at the very beginning of the semester.
Right, the privacy, the use of data, all that stuff, so that you may not say a lot about that.
But especially if it's clear, data is being generated, especially if it's data that's got potentially some connection to people.
You know how is there a way to find out how that's managed?
Do you have any idea, or or is it like completely, you know, kind of black boxes?
I have no idea, and there's doesn't seem to be, any way you might scan through the terms of service, and then you kind of privacy statements just to see if there's something that stands out as being something not worthy cost you know another thing any other administrative factors you
know. Those are some things that some people might be interested in hearing about as well.
Some of these tools work, have a premium model, but they may not really have those.
The functionality you need unless someone's paying for a premium installation, like, you know, for example, if you doing it with students, and you want to have them logging in and getting their data in some way that you can use as a teacher that typically has to have some sort of a site
licensing agreement, even though there's a premium model where you can do it individually.
But there may be no data generated that you can find useful.
Okay.
Alright! Well, if there's no other questions, and I think we're done, I'll stop the recording and I will see you online in the Forum.
There's a forum to do. Yes, hopefully, it's pretty light.
Shouldn't take a whole lot of extra time to do that, because I know most of your effort will will be done preparing for the paper and the presentation, or maybe doing a final version of a paper for another class.
You might be taking with me so